>> Kyle: We're not gonna
start this complex,
we're gonna start with
something a bit less complex.
What I'm gonna do is stop that server.
I'm using a tool called forever to run
my node processes in the back end.
And I'm gonna recommend if you
don't already have that installed,
if you have your node environment up and
going, if you do NPM install minus G,
so that you can install it globally and
then do forever.
That's a nice simple tool that will start
up a node process and then monitor it and
if it crashes it restarts it.
And crashes are pretty common.
And servers at JavaScript programming so
it's kind of useful to
run stuff with forever.
NPM install minus G forever and then you
should have a tool on your command line
that you can run forever like I was doing.
Anyway what I'm going to do is switch
to the base version of this code.
Node.
I'm sorry .server.
If you're running on
a Windows machine by the way,
you're not gonna be able to use the bash
script that I've provided, that server.sh,
but if you look at server.sh, it's not
really doing something entirely crazy.
It's basically killing the previous one so
you can do that yourself,
you can say forever stop and
kill the previous one.
And then [COUGH] it's
starting it up again,
you can run that command
the forever start.
You don't need these other things like
the up times and spin sleep times or
just forever, and then start and
then give it a code in it or it'll run and
manage it for you or you can just run
the command line like run it through node,
we'll get to that in just a minute.
For me I'm just gonna run
served.sh to start up.
The base version of this code.
And I'll go back to port 8050.
So you see a really baseline version where
I don't have any of this stuff going on
about interactions or stuff, but
this is kind of our starting point,
what I'm gonna do is spend a little
bit of time talking to you about
how this code currently
works this base version,
I'm in a walk you through different files
and point out some things that I did.
And then time permitting, we'll try to
put in a few little extra things to make
it look more and more like what I was
doing with the secure phrase site, and you
have both of those code bases from here
on that you can kind of go and refer to.
The first thing that you're gonna notice
right away, if you've already looked at
any of the source code, or
once you look at the source code,
you're going to note that I'm not really
using, I'm not a framework person.
And I'm not using any kind of
special framework or whatever,
this is bare bones JavaScript stuff.
There's a few little libraries that I pull
in to help with stuff, forever is a nice
little helpful tool, but this isn't
like I'm writing some agular app and
I've bought into some big ecosystem.
These are principles that I think are at
a lower level of the stack than what
framework you choose.
And what bugs me frankly a little bit
about framework choices that people make
is that it restricts you from making
some of these decisions yourself.
Kind of forces you down a particular path,
I don't like to be forced down those
paths, I like to have total freedom.
This is sort of our frameworkless
way to do shared code.
There's a term that's often used or thrown
around it's called isomorphic JavaScript.
Let me just address that term for
a moment.
It's completely BS term.
Because if you know the mathematical
principle of isomorphism,
if you know what isomorphic is
supposed to imply, this idea that
it's a value that is in a different form,
but that can go in either direction.
If I take a value in one form and
I convert it to another form and
then I can come back and I get the exact
same value, that's called an isomorphism.
And the principle of isomorphism means
that I need to actually something in
a different form.
But that's not actually
what we're doing here.
We're not actually taking JavaScript and
making the JavaScript in a different form.
We're making the exact same JavaScript and
sharing it.
A better term for
this principle of reusing JavaScript is to
call it reusable JavaScript, or
shared JavaScript, or hybrid JavaScript.
But this isomorphic term makes you sound
smart, but it's not actually accurate.
There is a way to do something that's
kind of like isomorphic JavaScript.
But that's not what anybody's doing.
That would be if you wrote your back
end in something like Java or whatever.
And it automatically produced some
JavaScript to replicate itself in
the browser and then there was a one to
one relationship where that JavaScript
could produce the same Java from itself.
That would be isomorphic JavaScript.
But nobody's doing that,
let's not use inproper terms just
because their buzz worrying.
I'm going to call it shared JavaScript or
hybrid JavaScript from here on.
And we'll take a look at.
>> Kyle: Take a look at some of the code.
I'm gonna start by share JS,
I'm gonna start by opening
up the secret .JS file.
Cuz this is where I set up
some configuration constants,
I just want you to be aware of what
configuration constants I'm setting up.
I'm setting up that the server address for
listening only on local hosts.
Sometimes people,
sometimes your machine won't work if you
actually say local host here
even though it ought to.
I've seen weirdness with node in the past,
I always specify the 127 address, and
then I picked port 8050, I don't know why.
It's just one of my favorite numbers for
demonstrating stuff,
port 8050 is the port I chose.
Some of these other ones really
aren't even actually being used, but
they're there in case you would use them
in the future, like some of the headers
that you send out if you wanna make cross
origin XHR requests and things like that.
This is if we're doing static file
caching, we can set up some links.
Mostly we're basically just using
the server name, server address,
and server port.
Now, let's open up server.JS,
it's kind of the main meat,
that's where our main
portion of our server works.
And, right off the bat, you'll see
that I'm starting out in strict mode.
That's a really important thing,
it's easy to forget, I think you
ought to be running in strict mode.
Put that at the top of all your files,
just get into the habit of making sure
that your code is running in strict mode.
I'm gonna uncomment this,
I have it commented out because we don't
necessarily need it running all the time.
This is actually it's kind
of a useful like debugging
trick if you haven't
heard about this in node.
In node, if an uncaught
exception chokes the server,
it will actually kill the server and
throw it into this weird state.
But there are times when you actually want
some sort of interactive
debugging going on.
There is a way to debug node processes,
we won't get into a lot of that.
But there's times when you don't actually
want it to just kill the node process.
And it's especially true
if you've got some bug, and
you're running something like forever,
Which is gonna keep restarting it,
and keep getting the same bug.
Turning this on, turning this
uncaught exception handler on,
allows you to catch it in a graceful way.
You're not gonna necessarily wanna keep
the server running once that happens, but
it does prevent the system from entirely
going away and restarting, I found that to
be a useful little trick to listen for
the uncaught exception handler.
Okay, the top,
I start setting up my variables,
this is a style that I've recently fallen
into which is that I put all my variables
at the top of my functions at
the bottom I only do that in node.
My browser's code, I actually end up doing
the reverse and I can't really fully
articulate why, but it's just
a style I've fallen into recently.
I find it easier to have all
my module declarations and
my require statements at the very top so
I can see it a glance everything that's
being pulled in, and I think that's
going to likely be more how we structure
our modules in the future anyway.
We're gonna be doing a lot
of import statements.
They're probably gonna be at the top,
it's kind of more closely mirrors that and
you can see I'm importing several base
node modules like the file system module,
the HTTP server module, the node-static
modules how I serve up static files
like the CSS and JavaScript Path
module for parsing file system paths.
URL parser, this one parses URL strings.
This watch one, I'll explain later, but
that's how you watch a file system and
do stuff if things change.
Now I start setting up some variables
which I'm not doing anything with yet, but
these are some variables.
These are basically the representations
of the modules that I plan to
use in both places.
ASQ that's gonna be my a sequence library.
Grips is my templating engine.
EventEmitter2 is an event library
that lets you have very lightweight
PubSub kind of thing.
Events is gonna be my actual
module that uses that, or
my actual instance of EventEmitter2.
Tmpls is gonna be my templates manager.
It interacts, that's actually
the compiled templates from grips.
Pages is gonna kind of
be a page controllers.
It's gonna handle mostly in the browser,
a little bit on the server, but
mostly in the browser, it's gonna handle
things like managing my history objects so
that my URLs, in a single page app,
my URLs are properly mapping with
my back button and stuff like that.
When you use the history API and
that one, the view module is directly
interacting with my templates.
And the request module
is abstracting away.
If I wanna request something
when I'm in the server context,
a request is just a file system load,
but if I'm in the browser,
it's an AJAX, I just create
a little wrapper on top of that so
I don't have to think and
I can use the same request in both places.
And then finally, a variable called
routes which is gonna be an array
of basically if you've done
any work with Express, or
if you've done maybe something like
KOA that's another generator's based
routing server that is similar to Express,
and there's even modules that let you use
them together but essentially I'm gonna
recreate that without a framework.
And I'm gonna do it in just
a few lines of code and
my router writes as a series of functions
that will perform my middleware pounds.
Here I start pulling in some stuff
this is requiring in that secret file,
setting up some static file options.
These aren't used yet in ours but, they're
used a little bit but not a lot right now.
You notice that I have it set up so that
you can switch this from Dev to Prod which
changes file caching modes and
things like that, all right.
Here I start loading in those modules
that I was talking about earlier.
And there's something interesting that
is definitely typically considered
an evil thing to do with note.
Most people say you should stay away
from the global object entirely.
I can't fully endorse this technique
without any side effects, but I would say
that it has become increasingly useful
in the process of sharing code
if I treat my hybrid modules,
their name spaces as being
on the global object.
The difference is if I wanted to do
this in a fully modularized way I'd
have a very different mechanism running
in the browser or something like require,
that would be managing my module instances
in the browser, and it would look very
different with how I would interact
with those modules in the node server.
And I don't want things to look
significantly differently or
it kinda defeats the purpose
of trying to share code.
Even if the code itself was shared if
the way that I use it is very different,
I don't really wanna go about that.
I'm also not a big fan of jury factor.
Sure you could re-factor server JS.
This was a quick and dirty site that
I built in three or four days for
the purposes of showing off some stuff,
this is certainly not production
quality perfect code.
What I'm doing is I'm basically setting a
local variable instance in my program but
I'm also making a reference to that
same thing on the global namespace.
And what that means in my code is that
inside of those modules if one module is
using another one,
I don't need to worry about
different sorts of imports on
the server as I do in the browser.
The other way of going about this by
the way if you don't want to go this route
with setting the Globals,
is you write server side modules and
then you use some tool like Browserify
which completely rewrites your code and
makes it look like something
that will run in the browser.
And I've done that before and
I'm not saying Browserify is bad,
actually it's a great tool.
But it's a lot more mental juggling to
think about the code that's running in
the browser has been transformed
now It's rewritten your code, and
I would rather literally use the same code
while I'm learning things and so forth.
For me Browserify was heavier than I
wanted to go with this project but
it is another way of handling
what I'm doing here.
I'm loading in some of these
libraries like asynquence this is
the contrib packages on top,
here's the grips, templating engine,
my EventEmitter these are me loading
in those pages in views and requests.
All right so I have a function
which I'll show you a little
bit down below called load templates.
It's supposed to go and take this
templates JS file, which I'll show you
where that comes from, but it's to take
that file, run it in my current context of
my engine so that my server side process
can render templates if necessary.
And the principle here is, what I call
sort of hybrid rendering which is that on
the initial page request or any page
requests that actually goes to the server.
That rendering engine should be invoked
and should render a full HTML page ready
to ship out to the server
with all of its data.
But once we then ship out an application,
and we are in the page in the server,
I mean in the client in the browser, now
you want for your JavaScript to take over
and to do single page app things like
being able to rerender a page using
the exact same templates,
with the exact same templating engine.
What I'm doing here is I'm loading up
the templates into the server instance so
they can make those initial requests but
we do the exact same thing we load those
things up into the browser as well and
it's literally identical code.
It's the same templating engine it's the
same templates that have been compiled.
Everything is exactly the same and
it runs the same in both places.
It's really a significant amount
of sharing that's going on and
what I need to do is basically load up
this file so let's take a divergence and
ask, there's a question what
is the purpose of asynquence?
Asynquence is a flow control library.
It manages things like promises and
generators.
Anything that you're doing asynchronously
instead of using native promises or
whatever, this is a library
that kind of helps
glue all of that stuff
together in a better way.
And so I'm gonna be using
a sequence down below to do, and
across the modules in quite a few places.
That's what it's for,
we're gonna use it in quite a few places.